.\" quik.conf - description of the format of the /etc/quik.conf file
.TH quik.conf 5 "19 March 1997" "" "PowerMac/Linux"
.SH NAME
quik.conf \- Configuration file for PowerMac/Linux disk bootstrap
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fB/etc/quik.conf\fR file is read by the second-stage bootstrap
(see bootstrap(8)).  It allows the user to customize various aspects
of the second-stage bootstrap's behaviour, and to specify various
programs (referred to in the configuration file as \fIimages\fR) which
can be booted using just a shorthand label.  (Other programs not
listed in the configuration file can also be booted, but the user must
enter the path name for the program rather than just a shorthand
label.)

The configuration file is parsed into tokens separated by white space
or the equals sign.  Comments begin with a hash character and continue
to the end of the line.  Words containing whitespace or other special
characters should be surrounded by double quotes, or the special characters
should be quoted by preceding them with a backslash.

The configuration file is structured as a list of global options,
followed by a list of images, each of which can have local options.
Local options are used when the corresponding image is booted, and
override the global options.  Each \fBimage\fR option in the
configuration file defines a new image, and options between that and
the next \fBimage\fR option are local options for that image.  Options
before the first \fBimage\fR option are global options.

There are two kinds of options: flag options and string options.  Flag
options are specified simply by giving the option name.  String
options are specified by giving the option name, an equals sign, and
the value (as a single token).  Whitespace around the equals sign is
ignored.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI device= path
Specifies the Open Firmware name of the default disk to use if no
explicit device name is given in the image path.  If this is not
specified, the boot device (the device from which Open Firmware loaded
the first-stage bootstrap) is used.
.TP
.BI partition= partno
Specifies which partition to use if no explicit partition number is
given in the image path.  If this is not specified, the default is to
use the first bootable partition on the device.
.TP
.BI default= label
Specifies the default image to boot if no image name or label is
entered by the user or specified via the Open Firmware \fIboot-file\fR
variable.  \fILabel\fR can be either a path name or a shorthand label.
This is a global option only.
.TP
.BI timeout= n
Specifies the timeout period for the second-stage bootstrap to wait
for the user to type a command line.  \fIN\fR is a decimal integer
specifying the timeout period in units of 0.1 seconds.  This is a
global option only.
.TP
.BI init-message= string
Specifies a string to print out when the second-stage bootstrap
starts.  This is a global option only.
.TP
.BI message= path
Specifies the path name for a file to print out when the second-stage
bootstrap starts, before it prompts the user for a command line.  This
is a global option only.
.TP
.BI root= string
Specifies that the argument
.BI root= string
should be inserted in the arguments to the kernel being booted, before
the arguments specified by the user.
.TP
.BI ramdisk= string
Specifies that the argument
.BI ramdisk= string
should be inserted in the arguments to the kernel being booted, before
the arguments specified by the user.
.TP
.B read-only
Specifies that the argument
.B ro
should be inserted in the arguments to the kernel being booted, before
the arguments specified by the user.
.TP
.B read-write
Specifies that the argument
.B rw
should be inserted in the arguments to the kernel being booted, before
the arguments specified by the user.
.TP
.BI append= string
Specifies that the argument
.I string
should be inserted in the arguments to the kernel being booted, before
the arguments specified by the user.
.TP
.BI literal= string
Specifies that the argument
.I string
followed by the arguments (if any) specified by the user should be the
only arguments passed to the kernel being booted (thus overriding the
\fBroot\fR and similar options).  This is a local option only.
.TP
.BI image= path
Specifies the path for an program which can be booted.  Options from
here until the next \fBimage\fR option are local options for this
program.
.TP
.BI initrd= path
Specifies the path for the initial ram disk image to load along with
the kernel.
.TP
.BI old-kernel
Specifies that you're booting a really old kernel (2.2). This should
not be set for 2.4 and 2.6 kernels, unless for some reason you're not
seeing the command line getting passed. Note, that if this is set,
initrd images will not work. This is a local option only.
.TP
.BI label= label
Specifies that \fIlabel\fR is a shorthand name for the current image.
This is a local option only.
.TP
.BI alias= label
Specifies that \fIlabel\fR is an alternative shorthand name for the
current image.  This is a local option only.
.TP
.B pause-after
Specifies that the second-stage bootstrap should pause after loading
the program and before transferring control to it.  The second-stage
bootstrap pauses by transferring control to Open Firmware; the user
can transfer control back with the \fBgo\fR command (i.e. forth word).
.TP
.BI pause-message= string
Specifies the message that the second-stage bootstrap should print
after loading the program and before waiting for the user to press a
key.  Only useful when the \fBpause-after\fR option is given.
.TP
.BI init-code= string
Specifies that the second-stage bootstrap should call Open Firmware to
execute the string given (a series of forth commands) before printing
the boot prompt.  This is a global option only.
.SH SEE ALSO
.I bootstrap(8)
