.\" quik - Powermac/Linux disk bootstrap installer
.TH quik 8 "16 March 1997" "" "PowerMac/Linux"
.SH NAME
quik \- Install disk bootstrap for PowerMac/Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /sbin/quik
.RB [ \-b\ \fIsecond-stage\fB ]
.RB [ \-C\ \fIconfig-file\fB ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-i\ \fIfirst-stage\fB ]
.RB [ \-r\ \fIroot-path\fB ]
.RB "[ [" \-s | \-S ] \ \fIbackup ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Quik
installs a disk bootstrap on a partition, enabling Linux to be booted
from that partition.  Specifically, it writes the first-stage
bootstrap together with a table of block numbers to the first 1024
bytes of the partition (the
.IR boot\ block ),
and modifies the entry for the partition in
the partition table to make the partition bootable.

.B Quik
creates the table of block numbers by finding out where on the disk
the blocks of the second-stage bootstrap are stored.  It then writes
these block numbers into the boot block so that the first-stage
bootstrap can load the second-stage bootstrap without having to
incorporate ext2 filesystem code.  The second-stage bootstrap file
must therefore be on the same disk as the boot block (although it need
not be on the same partition), and if the second-stage bootstrap file
is subsequently moved or replaced, quik must be re-run to update the
block number table.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.TP
.B \-b \fIsecond-stage
Use \fIsecond-stage\fR as the second-stage boot image, instead of the
default \fB/boot/iquik.b\fR.  The second-stage boot image must be on
the same disk as the boot block, though not necessarily on the same
partition.
.TP
.B \-C \fIconfig-file
Record \fIconfig-file\fR as the name of the configuration file for the
second-stage bootstrap to use, instead of the default
\fB/etc/quik.conf\fR.  The configuration file must be on the same disk
as the boot block, though not necessarily on the same partition.
.B \-f
Force installation of first-stage bootstrap, even if the version
number currently in the boot block matches quik's current version.
.TP
.B \-i \fIfirst-stage
Use \fIfirst-stage\fR as the first-stage boot image, instead of the
default \fB/boot/first.b\fR.
.TP
.B \-r \fIroot-path
Install the boot block on the partition on which \fIroot-path\fR is
mounted.  The default is the root partition.  With this option, quik
will by default use the first and second stage bootstraps found in
\fIroot-path\fB/boot\fR, and the default configuration file name will
be \fIroot-path\fB/etc/quik.conf\fR.
.TP
.B \-S \fIbackup
Save a copy of the current boot block in
.IR backup .
.TP
.B \-s \fIbackup
Save a copy of the current boot block in \fIbackup\fR if it does not
already exist.  By default, quik will save a copy of the current boot
block in \fB/boot/old.b\fR if that file does not already exist.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode: print messages indicating what quik is doing.
.TP
.B \-V
Print quik's version number and exit.
.SH FILES
.nf
/boot/iquik.b
/etc/iquik.conf
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
Paul Mackerras, based on the Sparc bootstrap installation program by
Maurizio Plaza and Jakub Jelinek.
.SH SEE ALSO
.I quik.conf(5), bootstrap(8)
